app/tests/e2e/artifacts/lessons/retrospective-summary.md, before:

---
last_analyzed: 2026-02-15T23:59:00
analyzed_by: retrospective-analyst
scope: combat domain (full cycle)
---

# Retrospective Summary

## Analysis Scope

- **Domain:** combat
- **Artifacts analyzed:** 19 scenarios, 19 verifications, 19 results, 15 loops (+ 12 sub-loops)
- **Period:** 2026-02-15 (first pipeline cycle)
- **Reports generated:** 0 (clean triage run)

## Aggregate Metrics

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Total lessons | 3 |
| Active | 3 |
| Resolved | 0 |
| By category: missing-check | 1 |
| By category: data-lookup | 2 |
| By frequency: recurring | 2 |
| By frequency: observed | 1 |
| Systemic patterns | 0 |
| Skills with lessons | 1 (scenario-crafter) |
| Skills with clean runs | 4 (gameplay-loop-synthesizer, scenario-verifier, playtester, result-verifier) |

## Corrected Scenarios (4 of 19)

| Scenario | Error Categories | Root Cause |
|----------|-----------------|------------|
| combat-basic-special-001 | missing-check | STAB-triggering pair used for no-STAB test |
| combat-type-effectiveness-001 | data-lookup | Water Gun learn level wrong (L10 vs L13) |
| combat-minimum-damage-001 | data-lookup | Normal vs Rock miscategorized as neutral |
| combat-multi-target-001 | data-lookup + missing-check | Earthquake learn level wrong (L10 vs L34) + STAB missed |

## Cross-Cutting Patterns

### Pattern A: STAB eligibility not validated (recurring — 2 scenarios)
The Scenario Crafter did not explicitly compare attacker types against move type when constructing scenarios. This produced two mirror-image errors: one scenario accidentally included STAB when intending to exclude it (combat-basic-special-001), and another omitted STAB that should have applied (combat-multi-target-001). Both required scenario rewrites.

### Pattern B: Move learn levels assumed, not verified (recurring — 2 scenarios)
The Scenario Crafter assigned moves to Pokemon at arbitrary levels (typically L10) without checking the species' pokedex file for actual learn levels. Water Gun (L13) and Earthquake (L34) were both unavailable at the specified levels. Both required level increases.

### Pattern C: Type effectiveness assumed without chart lookup (observed — 1 scenario)
Normal vs Rock was miscategorized as neutral when Rock actually resists Normal. The error was masked by the minimum damage rule producing the same final value. This makes it especially dangerous — the derivation was wrong but the test would have passed anyway.

## Skill Performance Summary

| Skill | Errors Introduced | Errors Caught | Notes |
|-------|-------------------|---------------|-------|
| Gameplay Loop Synthesizer | 0 | — | Clean: 15 loops + 12 sub-loops, all accurate |
| Scenario Crafter | 5 (across 4 scenarios) | — | All errors: 2 STAB, 2 learn-level, 1 type-chart |
| Scenario Verifier | 0 | 5 (all) | Caught every Crafter error on first pass |
| Playtester | 0 | — | Clean: 80/80 tests, 0 retries, 0 self-corrections |
| Result Verifier | 0 | — | Clean: 19/19 PASS, 0 failures to triage |

## Top 3 Recommendations

1. **Add STAB validation step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern A — recurring, high severity). Before any damage derivation, explicitly check attacker types vs move type and annotate the result in the scenario.

2. **Add mandatory pokedex lookup step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern B — recurring, high severity). After selecting a species and move, verify learn level from the pokedex file and set the Pokemon's level accordingly. Include learn-level citation in the scenario.

3. **Add type-chart verification step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern C — observed, medium severity). For every type interaction in a scenario, look up each type pair individually against the PTU type chart. Especially critical for dual-type targets where one type may have a non-neutral interaction.

## Positive Observations

- **Scenario Verifier reliability:** Caught all 5 errors across 4 scenarios with zero false positives — the verification layer is working as designed.
- **API-first test architecture:** The Playtester's approach of using API calls for setup and assertions (with UI only for 3 lifecycle/ordering specs) produced a 100% clean run with 0 retries and 0 selector issues.
- **Pipeline throughput:** 19 scenarios fully pipelined (loops → scenarios → verifications → specs → results → triage) in a single session with only one correction cycle needed.

Commit message:

docs: add 2 process-gap lessons for Playtester
Playtester silently adapted around two API-level discoveries instead of
filing reports: field name mismatches (baseSpAttack vs baseSpAtk) and
missing specialEvasion on combatant response. Both should have been
escalated through the pipeline, not absorbed.

app/tests/e2e/artifacts/lessons/retrospective-summary.md, after:

---
last_analyzed: 2026-02-15T23:59:00
analyzed_by: retrospective-analyst
scope: combat domain (full cycle)
---

# Retrospective Summary

## Analysis Scope

- **Domain:** combat
- **Artifacts analyzed:** 19 scenarios, 19 verifications, 19 results, 15 loops (+ 12 sub-loops)
- **Period:** 2026-02-15 (first pipeline cycle)
- **Reports generated:** 0 (clean triage run)

## Aggregate Metrics

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Total lessons | 5 |
| Active | 5 |
| Resolved | 0 |
| By category: missing-check | 1 |
| By category: data-lookup | 2 |
| By category: process-gap | 2 |
| By frequency: recurring | 2 |
| By frequency: observed | 3 |
| Systemic patterns | 0 |
| Skills with lessons | 2 (scenario-crafter, playtester) |
| Skills with clean runs | 3 (gameplay-loop-synthesizer, scenario-verifier, result-verifier) |

## Corrected Scenarios (4 of 19)

| Scenario | Error Categories | Root Cause |
|----------|-----------------|------------|
| combat-basic-special-001 | missing-check | STAB-triggering pair used for no-STAB test |
| combat-type-effectiveness-001 | data-lookup | Water Gun learn level wrong (L10 vs L13) |
| combat-minimum-damage-001 | data-lookup | Normal vs Rock miscategorized as neutral |
| combat-multi-target-001 | data-lookup + missing-check | Earthquake learn level wrong (L10 vs L34) + STAB missed |

## Cross-Cutting Patterns

### Pattern A: STAB eligibility not validated (recurring — 2 scenarios)
The Scenario Crafter did not explicitly compare attacker types against move type when constructing scenarios. This produced two mirror-image errors: one scenario accidentally included STAB when intending to exclude it (combat-basic-special-001), and another omitted STAB that should have applied (combat-multi-target-001). Both required scenario rewrites.

### Pattern B: Move learn levels assumed, not verified (recurring — 2 scenarios)
The Scenario Crafter assigned moves to Pokemon at arbitrary levels (typically L10) without checking the species' pokedex file for actual learn levels. Water Gun (L13) and Earthquake (L34) were both unavailable at the specified levels. Both required level increases.

### Pattern C: Type effectiveness assumed without chart lookup (observed — 1 scenario)
Normal vs Rock was miscategorized as neutral when Rock actually resists Normal. The error was masked by the minimum damage rule producing the same final value. This makes it especially dangerous — the derivation was wrong but the test would have passed anyway.

### Pattern D: Playtester silently adapts instead of filing reports (observed — 2 instances)
The Playtester discovered two API-level issues during spec authoring — field name mismatches (`baseSpAttack` vs `baseSpAtk`) and missing response fields (`specialEvasion`) — and worked around both silently. No reports were filed, so the discoveries never reached the Scenario Crafter or Developer. The Playtester's "0 errors" grade was partly achieved by absorbing problems that should have been escalated.

## Skill Performance Summary

| Skill | Errors Introduced | Errors Caught | Notes |
|-------|-------------------|---------------|-------|
| Gameplay Loop Synthesizer | 0 | — | Clean: 15 loops + 12 sub-loops, all accurate |
| Scenario Crafter | 5 (across 4 scenarios) | — | All errors: 2 STAB, 2 learn-level, 1 type-chart |
| Scenario Verifier | 0 | 5 (all) | Caught every Crafter error on first pass |
| Playtester | 2 (process gaps) | — | 80/80 tests passed, but silently adapted around 2 API issues without filing reports |
| Result Verifier | 0 | — | Clean: 19/19 PASS, 0 failures to triage |

## Top 3 Recommendations

1. **Add STAB validation step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern A — recurring, high severity). Before any damage derivation, explicitly check attacker types vs move type and annotate the result in the scenario.

2. **Add mandatory pokedex lookup step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern B — recurring, high severity). After selecting a species and move, verify learn level from the pokedex file and set the Pokemon's level accordingly. Include learn-level citation in the scenario.

3. **Add type-chart verification step to Scenario Crafter** (addresses Pattern C — observed, medium severity). For every type interaction in a scenario, look up each type pair individually against the PTU type chart. Especially critical for dual-type targets where one type may have a non-neutral interaction.

4. **Require Playtester to file reports for API mismatches** (addresses Pattern D — observed, medium severity). When spec authoring reveals field name mismatches or missing API response fields, file a SCENARIO_BUG or AMBIGUOUS report rather than silently adapting the spec. The pipeline depends on reports to propagate discoveries.

## Positive Observations

- **Scenario Verifier reliability:** Caught all 5 errors across 4 scenarios with zero false positives — the verification layer is working as designed.
- **API-first test architecture:** The Playtester's approach of using API calls for setup and assertions (with UI only for 3 lifecycle/ordering specs) produced a stable run with 0 retries and 0 selector issues. However, the Playtester's "clean" record was inflated by silently absorbing 2 API-level issues that should have been reported.
- **Pipeline throughput:** 19 scenarios fully pipelined (loops → scenarios → verifications → specs → results → triage) in a single session with only one correction cycle needed.
